# CS-3402

# How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

I write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable by developing modularized code with comments explaining each blocks function. For example the CRUD python file breaks the code down into funtions such as the create, read, update, and delete functions with each giving a description of how they work. This allows for future developers maintaining the code to understand its functionality and make appropriate changes. Also, by writing programs in this way I can use the file as middleware between many different databases and user interfaces. Lastly, by importing modularized code I can make function calls to call a specified modular block using only the functions from the python file that is needed to perform the job which increases reusability.

# How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

As a computer scientist I approach a problem by identifying the requirements first and then establishing the most efficient way to meet those requirements. In this project I used a full stack developement approach by creating the base layer through MongoDB, the middleware through a python CRUD file, and the user layer through dash. In previous assignments I didn't use a full stack development approach and instead developed all of my code in one layer. I believe in the future I will continue to use full stack developement approaches when working with databases as the information is easier to work with and more visually appealing. Lastly, using middlware allows for reusability by being able to connect different databases and user interfaces to the middleware file.

# What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists solve problems by developing programs to meet a set of requirements. In this project the requirements were to intake information from local animal shelters and then apply sort and filter processes to find animals that could be trained into rescue animals. This was done through mongoDB with a python file as middleware accessing the database and finally a user interface to visualize the data and filter between rescue catagories. Ultimately there are many different problems that exist within companies that need a program to simplify a manual task, automate a process, and many other uses. We as computer scientists work to develop solutions to those needs while remaining ethical and always developing with maintainability in mind.
